The moment the embryo enters the mucosa,
all the fluidic force comes from the outside
and will center inside.
This means we must bring the fluids back to the center.
And that's what the embryo does.
The embryonic force is a force that develops from the periphery
on the fluidic level.
on the venous level, on the arterial level, towards the center.
Everything comes back to the center.
First key, I must gradually understand that I need to bring the fluids
back to the center.
What allows this integration?
In fact, it's the amniotic cavity, zone B.
The outline of the vascular system appears in the splanchnopleural mesoblast,
at the level of the wall of the vitelline vesicle,
as well as at the level of the chorion and the intran mesenchyme.
This means that we find it in the form of small vascular islands
in the vitelline vesicle here.
And we will see that it is this amniotic cavity that will allow the integration of this vitelline cavity towards the center.
Vitelline stage, placental stage, neonatal stage.
We will first work mainly on this vitelline stage.
There are small islands here.
And we will see that it will integrate more and more inside.
First thing to remember, the large network develops at the level of my vesicle and at the level of the pellicle.
Now, there's a rule here.
It is that for there to be a kinetic, therefore the formation of vessels, there must always be four components.
First component, there must be the presence of an intercellular substance.
There must be a local chemical concentration.
There must be a presence of vacuolization.
There must be a presence of trajectory.
Blechmidt describes this.
It's like a rainbow.
For that, I need water, rain, sun, and a certain angulation.
And the appearance of a rainbow.
If I remove one element, an angle, water, sun, it disappears immediately. It's the same for vessels. I always need
these elements. I remove a trajectory all at once, momentarily, it's
over. I remove a concentration, it's over. This means that the vascular system
will evolve even throughout your life. It will be in adaptation. You understand
that there is a large network that will develop from my vitelline vesicle, but also partly from the chorion.
So I remind you, I have my embryo developing like this. Initially, it has a kind of racket shape like that.
And then I have an embryonic pedicle here.
I remind you that we had the primitive streak, the notochord, which is here below. We saw that the notochord directly influenced
another tissue which is the neural plate.
And there, the cells of the neural plate which are just above here will not grow at the same speed as the cells which are here.
The cells here have an inhibition.
I have a groove developing.
The moment I have this groove space, what do I notice?
It is that I have a restructuring of the trophic metabolic flow.
which organizes itself this time within my mesoderm in the form of a fluid trajectory like this, on both sides.
Now, when we look at the development on the pure mesodermal level, in this axis here,
I have small vacuoles developing like this.
These are first small vacuoles.
It's a growth process.
The whole system develops, there is an aspiration in the mesodermal tissue, okay? Fluidic.
these small vacuoles will start to grow.
I have more and more a trajectory that organizes itself.
I have a significant concentration here,
and I have intercellular substances here, around.
So I have all the components coming together to form a vessel structure.
This is what will suddenly continue to grow
and will form what we call a corrosion field.
It's when they meet and,
And at some point, there is no longer this tissue that nourishes the membrane and it will give way.
And it will start to create a vessel that gradually structures itself through these corrosion fields here.
And there, I will gradually have a channel in which there will be a structuring and substances initially that will gradually develop in these vessels here.
Initially here, I have an aspiration field given by this wave and by this mitotic process.
Remember.
I have two movements, a notochordal movement like this,
and as you rightly saw, I have this downward aspiration movement like this.
The notochord immediately reorganizes my ectoderm into a groove.
On both sides, it will organize a trajectory,
and especially on both sides of my neural tube.
And there, I have a structuring of vacuoles that realize.
And that's how a first vessel will appear,
which is a vessel we call an assimilation phase.
It's...
And the cells, they feed on that.
And so, I will find myself with a polarity.
Now, I make the same diagram here, and I see it like this.
Ectoderm, endoderm below, and I have the field below.
So, food arrives here.
And so, it is transmitted.
by a different degree of polarity between the ectoderm here.
And so, I have an aspiration.
Same thing here.
So, initially, there is not much congestion.
Afterwards, I will have a phase that is more congestive in this part.
And it is this part that will recreate an elimination phase.
I will have the appearance of an arterial type vessel through the steel phase.
So an aspiration field like that, and then through the return phase, through the congestion and elimination of my catabolites,
I will have the appearance of a second level, a second trajectory that develops, which will be a descending network like this.
So I have a system that first develops assimilation of information, and then I have a second plan which is a disassimilation system.
Disassimilation.
This will develop my primitive arterial system
and this will develop my secondary venous network which will give what we call the first two fluidic return trajectories which
will actually be the outline of my cardinal vein.
This will be the outline of what we call my two primitive aortas, but it is primary.
I should have drawn the venous vascular system, much more lateral.
It's more external, it's not between the two.
First vascular network that develops here with my aortas, primitive,
which is dependent on this developmental movement.
You imagine this uplift between my ectoderm and my endoderm
which will aspirate from my primitive streak, which will become the mesoderm.
This mesoderm, through the development...
of my neural plate reorganizes its structure and creates a left-right trajectory.
In this trajectory phenomenon, I have vacuolizations appearing.
This vacuolization, through the aspiration field, will create all the necessary components
to form a double aorta that will join towards my median line.
To form an aorta and on both sides, more laterally, and more anteriorly here, there will be a...
return that will occur in the form of a new trajectory called the cardinal veins trajectories. So there, I have the first embryonic network that develops. It is a purely aortic, primitive network, which is an assimilation phase
of nutritive information.
And secondly, I have a return here, which we call the disassimilation phase.
And this is the first vascular network that will be called.
One, the primitive aortas and two, the network of cardinal veins.
All integrated by the embryonic pedicle and also integrated by the vitelline system.
And we will see that this whole vitelline system will be of great importance for my visceral system.
Always the four components for all vessels.
And it's interesting because we will see some clinical cases where there are reappearances of fields.
volumetric fields that recreate vascular fields. I have a patient, she has a
problem with iron. This iron problem means she has severe anemia.
I'm adding an important element. Later, in this development,
there will be a volume regulator. The spleen, which can, when necessary,
increase, bring back red blood cells, increase your blood volume or not.
This will be interesting for understanding the volumetric and even tensional balance of the body in relation to the adrenal gland, but I will talk about that later.
Every time her period appears, suddenly a whole arterial network reappears here, a large red patch that comes back on her face.
When she was a baby, she had what we call a venous network which very often disappears in some cases or not, she still had micro trajectories, but she had lost the metabolic concentration
and suddenly the spleen reopens and puts back a concentration and it restarts in old networks and it simply reopens these patterns there
so you see
I remove one component, I decrease another, I increase the component, I take back between the heart, the liver, the spleen and the small intestine
which are finally sponges of blood and well we noticed
on an embryonic level
that any malformation of your spleen
is always linked to a malformation of your vascular system. In other words, in the development of an embryo, this spleen is fundamental
because it rebalances the system in terms of volume.
And so, it can,
when necessary, increase its blood volume or decrease its blood volume.
So, it has
an adaptive capacity according to your metabolic needs.
You understood here this first level which we call the assimilation phase,
which is therefore organized by my notochord, my neural tube which reorganizes a groove, which reorganizes a trajectory in which there are the components to have a schema
vascular called the trajectory, the vacuole.
The metabolic concentration and the presence of intercellular substances that lead to the appearance of a primitive assimilation vascular system that will give rise to the primitive arterial system.
And then little by little, through the return, a disassimilation system that will form the venous system.
This first assimilation system will carry the first vascular networks which will be what we call the two primitive aortas for the arterial plane and for the venous plane the two veins
cardinal veins, we call them primitive cardinal veins, then it will become more complex, the importance of my ectodermal system which comes to
reorganize the vascular plan but the first aspiration field is a much more assimilation field than a metabolic field that we had seen what we call the movements of
of permeation, of permeation and infusion.
You always have to bring the fluids back to the center,
and little by little, you have to understand that there can be changes and that this great engine, afterwards, will be the spleen.
And to have a spleen, I need what?
The liver, in its growth, in its orientation, is completely the engine of organization.
So we'll see that we need to rebalance.
both on an embryonic level and more on a directional level, it is a center
of organization both globally subdiaphragmatic but also a center of left-right organization
and we had seen that it would organize the entire gastro-hepato-pancreatico-splenic space and that it is finally this culmination of my splenic system that will be dependent on my liver